# LIST OF CRICKET WORLD CUP WINNERS SINCE 1975 TO 2019
The [list of Cricket World Cup Winners since 1975 to 2019](https://skyblogs.in/list-of-icc-cricket-world-cup-winners/) is a golden history in the world of cricket. The ICC cricket world cup is the ODI championship which occurs every four years in different continents. It is considered one of the most viewed sports events in the world. The top eight teams in the ICC ODI ranking get eligible for the tournament automatically, while others have to fight for the remaining two places. In total 10 teams play in this tournament. However, the number of participants changes as per the ICC’s rule every time. To date 12 WORLD CUPS have been played, where AUSTRALIA has won the title 5 times, INDIA & WEST INDIES HAS BEEN champions twice. ENGLAND has hosted tournaments 5 times which is most by any country. While ASIAN teams’ combinedly (INDIA, PAKISTAN, BANGLADESH, SRILANKA) hosted it three times. WEST INDIES has hosted it once only. Whilst AUSTRALIA& NEW ZEALAND cooperatively have held it Twice. 

1975 CRICKET WORLD CUP 
list of cricket world cup winners since 1975 to 2019 -ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP 1975 WINNER WAS WEST INDIES
ENGLAND hosted the inaugural cricket world cup. Eight teams had participated in the first edition of the ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP. Eight teams were ENGLAND, INDIA, PAKISTAN, NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA, ENGLAND, SRI LANKA, EAST AFRICA. The total number of matches was 15. WEST INDIES won the first edition of the World Cup. AUSTRALIA was the runners-up in the first-ever WORLD CUP. It was a 60 over World Cup. WEST INDIAN captain CLIVE LLOYD was the first captain to win the world cup. NEW ZEALAND’S Glenn Turner was the highest run-getter in the tournament (333), while AUSTRALIA’S Gary Gilmour became the bowler of the tournament with 11 wickets. The matches were played with red balls. 

1979 CRICKET WORLD CUP 
list of cricket world cup winners since 1975 to 2019 -ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP 1979 WINNER WAS WEST INDIES
England held the tournament for the second time. The total number of participants was 8. Like the previous edition, every team participated only CANADA was the new team which was playing instead of EAST AFRICA. Total 8 teams played 15 matches in this tournament. WEST WINDIES won the title for the second time under CLIVE LLOYD’S leadership. This time ENGLAND was the runners-up. From WEST INDIES Gordon Greenidge scored the highest run in the tournament (253). British bowler Mike Hendrick was the highest wicket-taker with 10 wickets. The red ball was used in this championship. 

1983 CRICKET WORLD CUP 
ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP 1983 WINNER WAS INDIA
For the third time in a row, ENGLAND was the host country. On this occasion, 8 teams played 27 matches in total. ZIMBABWE was the new team playing in this World Cup in CANADA’S place, the rest of the teams were tantamount. In this new edition, the world got a new winner in form of INDIA by defeating defending champions WEST INDIES. KAPIL DEV was the first Asian captain to win the World Cup. In this edition also matches consisted of 60 overs per innings. Englishman David Gower was the batsman of the championship by scoring 384 runs. Indian bowler Roger Binny & SriLankan bowler Ashantha De Mel grabbed 18 wickets respectively, which was the highest in the tournament.  

1987 CRICKET WORLD CUP 
ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP 1987 WINNER WAS AUSTRALIA
This World Cup was the fourth edition of the World Cup which was also known as Reliance cup. INDIA&PAKISTAN combinedly hosted the tournament. Same countries as last edition took part in this championship. This time the numbers of overs were reduced to 50 from 60. Total 27 matches were played. AUSTRALIA won their first crown by snatching the game from ENGLAND. Graham Gooch of ENGLAND was the top scorer with 471 runs. In bowling Aussie cricket Craig McDermott got most numbers of wickets (18). 

1992 CRICKET WORLD CUP –ICC WORLD CUP 2019–LIST OF CRICKET WORLD CUP WINNERS SINCE 1975 TO 2019
ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP 1992 WINNER WAS PAKISTAN
Australia& New Zealand held the 5th staging of the cricket World Cup. This time 9 teams participated in this tournament. The total number of matches was 39. The 9 countries were AUSTRALIA, INDIA, ENGLAND, PAKISTAN, NEW ZELAND, SOUTH AFRICA, SRI LANKA, WEST INDIES& one associate member ZIMBABWE, who made their place in the series by playing qualifiers. For the first time, IMRAN KHAN’S Pakistan won the title by beating England. Martin Crowe of New Zealand won the player of the series award for his sensational batting display throughout the tournament, he made 456runs in the series. Pakistan’s bowling sensation Wasim Akram was the best bowler of the tournament for grabbing 18 wickets. For the first time in the history of cricket red ball was superseded by the white ball & color dresses were used in a series. 

WORLD CUP 1996
ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP 1992 WINNER WAS PAKISTAN
It was also called wills World Cup. INDIA, PAKISTAN& SRILANKA cooperatively held the tournament. Sri Lanka was the first time hosting it. A total of 12 teams took part in this World Cup. The teams were INDIA, PAKISTAN, SRI LANKA, ENGLAND, SOUTH AFRICA, ZIMBABWE, NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA, WEST INDIES along with associate members KENYA, NETHERLANDS & UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (UAE). Sri Lanka won the World Cup for the first time under captain Arjuna Ranatunga’s leadership, where Australia finished the series in 2nd place. Sachin Tendulkar was the highest run-getter of the tournament with 523 runs, whilst Anil Kumble picked up the highest wickets (15). Sri Lankan batsman Sanath Jayasuriya was the player of the series for his all-round presentation (221 runs along with 7 scalps) 

WORLD CUP 1999
ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP 1999 WINNER WAS AUSTRALIA
The 7th edition of the cricket world cup was primarily held in England, Ireland, Wales & Scotland. The 12 participants were ENGLAND. AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, PAKISTAN, SOUTH AFRICA, SRI LANKA, WEST INDIES, ZIMBABWE along with associate teams KENYA, BANGLADESH& SCOTTLAND who all made their place by playing ICC Trophy qualifiers. Steve Waugh, the Aussie captain led team ended up winning the tournament by thrashing Pakistan in the final. Indian star Rahul Dravid was the highest run-scorer of the series with 461 runs. New Zealand’s Geoff Allott & Australia’s Shane Warne was the joint highest wicket-taker with 20 wickets respectively. Proteas cricketer Lanse Kluesner was awarded man of the match for his all-round performance (281 runs& 17 wickets). 

2003 CRICKET WORLD CUP 
ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP 2003 WINNER WAS AUSTRALIA
JOHANNESBURG – MARCH 23: Australia celebrates winning the World Cup after the ICC Cricket World Cup Final between India and Australia at the Wanderers in Johannesburg, South Africa on March 20, 2003. (Photo by Mike Hewitt/Getty Images)
It was the eighth edition of the ICC Cricket World Cup. SOUTH AFRICA, ZIMBABWE& KENYA co-hosted the tournament. A total of 14 countries participated in this World Cup. The participants were INDIA, PAKISTAN, AUSTRALIA, ENGLAND, SOUTH AFRICA, SRI LANKA, NEW ZEALAND, WEST INDIES, ZIMBABWE, BANGLADESH& the associate members were KENYA, NAMIBIA, CANADA, NETHERLANDS. 54 matches were played among all teams. Australia won the World Cup for the second time in a row by eliminating India under Ricky Pointing’s captaincy. Sachin Tendulkar has bestowed the man of the series award for his exceptional batting in the tournament (673 runs). Whilst SriLankan speedster Chaminda Vaas was the highest wicket-taker with 23 scalps. 

2007 CRICKET WORLD CUP 
ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP 2007 WINNER WAS AUSTRALIA
The Caribbeans hosted the 9th edition of the World Cup. 16 teams from all over the world participated in this World Cup. The countries were SOUTH AFRICA, AUSTRALIA, INDIA, PAKISTAN, SRI LANKA, NEW ZEALAND, ENGLAND, WEST INDIES, BANGLADESH, ZIMBABWE, KENYA, SCOTTLAND, NETHERLANDS, IRELAND, CANADA& the first-time participant BERMUDA. All nations clashed in 51 matches but Australia & Sri Lanka made their place in the finals. For 3rd consecutive time Australia won the title& 2nd time under Ricky Ponting’s captainship by smashing Sri Lanka. Glenn McGrath got the MOS award for his stupendous bowling in the tournament (26 wickets). Mathew Hayden was highest run-scorer with 659 runs. 

ICC WORLD CUP 2011
ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP 2011 WINNER WAS INDIA
The 10th edition of the World Cup was hosted by INDIA, SRI LANKA& BANGLADESH combinedly. 14 countries took part in this tournament. The participants were PAKISTAN, SRI LANKA, AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, ZIMBABWE, CANADA, KENYA, SOUTH AFRICA, INDIA, ENGLAND, WEST INDIES, BANGLADESH, IRELAND & NETHERLANDS. The total number of matches were 49. After defeating Pakistan& New Zealand in the semi-finals India and Sri Lanka faced each other in the final. Under MS DHONI’S leadership, India won the World Cup 2011 after 28 years by beating Sri Lanka. TM Dilshan was highest run scorer with 500 runs, while Shahid Afridi& Zaheer Khan became the joint lead wicket-takers with 21 scalps each. Yuvraj Singh won the Man of the Series award for his outstanding batting (362 runs), bowling (15wickets) & fielding.  

2015 CRICKET WORLD CUP 
ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP 2015 WINNER WAS AUSTRALIA
The 11th World Cup was played in AUSTRALIA& NEW ZEALAND. 14 teams across the globe played the world series (INDIA, SOUTH AFRICA, PAKISTAN, WEST INDIES, IRELAND, ZIMBABWE, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES, NEW ZEALAND, AUSTRALIA, SRI LANKA, BANGLADESH, ENGLAND, AFGHANISTAN, SCOTLAND). All teams shared the 49 matches between them. Australia won the finals after defeating New Zealand under Michael Clarke’s captaincy. Mitchell Starc reserved the MOS award by bowling brilliantly throughout the series (22). Kiwi batsman Martin Guptill made the highest run in the tournament (547). 

ICC WORLD CUP 2019–LIST OF CRICKET WORLD CUP WINNERS SINCE 1975 TO 2019
ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP 2019 WINNER WAS ENGLAND
The 12th edition of the World Cup was hosted by ENGLAND& WALES. 10 teams across the globe faced each other in the series. The participants were INDIA, PAKISTAN, AUSTRALIA, ENGLAND, NEW ZEALAND, SRI LANKA, WEST INDIES, SOUTH AFRICA, BANGLADESH, AFGHANISTAN. The total number of matches was 48. England won the World cup for the first time against New Zealand with the help of Duckworth Lewis’s rule under Eion Morgan’s captaincy. Mitchell Starc took the most wickets (27) in the championship. Rohit Sharma was the highest run-scorer in the tournament (648 runs). Kiwi cricketer Kane Williamson got the Man of the Series award for his incredible batting display (578) & smart captain-ship. 
